1. explaing the architecture of nodejs

answer1:

all the synchronous code will be sent to call stack and all the asynchronous code(which require some
time to execute or some APIs to be called)will be sent to node APIs. then all the synchronous code
in call stack will be executed. then asynchronous code is sent to call queue after its waiting tak is
done and then it is sent to call stack and then asynchronous code is also executed.

2. explain the feature of nodejs like non-blocking, synchronous, single threaded.

answer2:

non-blocking--> Non-Blocking means that javascript continues the execution of the synchronous programs
instead of waiting for long I/O operations or any other asynchronous functions.

synchronous--> programs are executed in sequence in javascript and hene it is called synchronous.

single threaded--> this means that only one line of program is executed at a given time in javascript.

3. create a array and object in javascript and print it.

answer3:

let arr=[1,22,3,2]
console.log(arr)
let obj={
name:'atharav',
rollno:30
}
console.log(obj)

4. Nowadays how data is transferred between server and client?(explain about json)

answer4:

we use json (java script object notation) to send send data between client and server.
for example a client enter his name age and address then this data will be sent to server
to be stored as json objects for example-->{ name:"atharav",age:20,address:"c-7007 sec13 rajajipuram" }

this is how data is transferred between server and client using json.

5. write program to show how to append, pop and sort elements in array in javascript.

answer5:

let arr=new Array()

arr.push(6)-->to append element
arr.push(2)
arr.push(1)
arr.push(34)

arr.pop()-->to pop element

arr.sort()-->to sort elements in an array

6. why should we use let in place of var in our javascript programs?

answer6:

when we use var to declare variables the variable sustains its value even after outside its scope
of existance which may cause problems when we have a lot of variables to deal with. that is why we
should use let instead of var because variable declared with let only exists in the scope in which
it is declared.

7. explain about all the primitive data types in javascript.

answer7:

primitive data types in javascript-->

1. number --> it contains all numbers(integers,exponent as well as decimals)
2. strings --> it contains all character sequences enclosed in qoutes.
   3.boolean--> it caontains two values namely true and false
   4.null--> it is a variable with null value meaning no value
   5.undefined--> it is the value of a varible which is not initialized.
